DOCS-708: apply naomi's feedback on extend (#1133)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/program/extend/custom-components-remotes.md

weight: 99
type: "docs"
tags: ["server", "sdk"]
aliases:

>     - "program/extend/custom-components-remotes"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - "program/extend/sdk-as-server"
```
The alias must be the old page link, that's what will then be forwarded to this one

Author: done

webmSrc: "/tutorials/img/custom-base-dog/base-control-dog.webm"
mp4Src: "/tutorials/img/custom-base-dog/base-control-dog.mp4"
videoAlt: "A quadrupedal robot comprised of small servos, black laser cut acrylic, and with ultrasonic sensors for eyes, walks forward, backward, and turns from side to side on a desk. Next to it is a laptop with the robot's Control tab on the Viam app open in a browser window."
---

{{% alert title="Caution" color="caution" %}}
{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="module" text="Modular resources" >}} are the preferred method of creating custom resource implementations for SDKs with module support unless you are hosting `viam-server` on a non-Linux platform or have another issue with compilation.

Instructions on creating and using modular resources are available [here](/program/extend/modular-resources).
{{% /alert %}}

If a type or model of [component](/components) you are working with is not built-in to the [Viam RDK](/internals/rdk), you can use a [Viam SDK](/program/get-started-sdks) to code a custom resource implementation, host it on a server, and add it as a [remote](/manage/parts-and-remotes) of your robot.

> After configuring the remote server, control and monitor your component programmatically with the SDKs and from the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have coded your custom component and configured the remote servers, you can control and monitor your component with the Viam SDKs, like any other component. 
```

Author: done

weight: 99
type: "docs"
tags: ["server", "sdk"]

> aliases:

Reviewer: Previously in this file there was some info that said:
```
Implementing a custom component allows you to create a new component type (or a new model of an existing type, such as a new `arm` model) that interfaces with `viam-server` using Viam's SDKs.
A custom component is a subclass of a [component](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/components/component_base/index.html#module-viam.components.component_base) that allows you to register the new component with the `viam-server` as a {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="remote" text="remote" >}} after you spin up an SDK server (which can have one or many custom components).
```

This seemed helpful but I think it's gone missing

Reviewer: (https://github.com/viamrobotics/docs/pull/1029#discussion_r1180269301)

Author: I agree that this seems helpful but James pointed out that it is inaccurate! The subclass terminology is only true for Python, and the registration is with the SDK not `viam-server`, + "sdk server" is inaccurate

I tried to add more to the example to clarify that component API methods are available & put a sentence in the instructional language tabs clarifying `Each remote server can host one or many custom components.`

Reviewer: ok thank you!

>     - "program/extend/sdk-as-server"

Author: Both methods of custom component implementations are supported by both SDKS!

videoAlt: "A quadrupedal robot comprised of small servos, black laser cut acrylic, and with ultrasonic sensors for eyes, walks forward, backward, and turns from side to side on a desk. Next to it is a laptop with the robot's Control tab on the Viam app open in a browser window."
---

{{% alert title="Caution" color="caution" %}}
{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="module" text="Modular resources" >}} are the preferred method of creating custom resource implementations for SDKs with module support unless you are hosting `viam-server` on a non-Linux platform or have another issue with compilation.

Instructions on creating and using modular resources are available [here](/program/extend/modular-resources).
{{% /alert %}}

If a type or model of [component](/components) you are working with is not built-in to the [Viam RDK](/internals/rdk), you can use a [Viam SDK](/program/sdks) to code a custom resource implementation, host it on a server, and add it as a [remote](/manage/parts-and-remotes) of your robot.

Once you have coded your custom component and configured the remote servers, you can control and monitor your component with the Viam SDKs, like any other component.

> For example:

Reviewer: Lines 27-29:

```
For example, you may have a robotic arm that is not one of the models supported by [Viam’s arm component](/components/arm/), and you want to integrate it with Viam. To use is with Viam, you can create a custom component and register the new arm model with a Viam SDK. Then you can control it as part of your robot.
```

Author: Yeah no problem, changed
